= MiniPortile

* {Source Code}[https://github.com/luislavena/mini_portile]
* {Bug Reports}[https://github.com/luislavena/mini_portile/issues]

This project is a minimalistic, simplistic and stupid implementation of a port/recipe
system <b>for developers</b>.

== Another port system, srsly?

No, is not a general port system, is not aimed to take over apt, macports or
anything like that.

The rationale is simple.

You create a library A that uses B at runtime or compile time. Target audience
of your library might have different versions of B installed than yours.

You know, <em>Works on my machine</em> is not what you expect from one
developer to another.

Developers having problems report them back to you, and what you do then?
Compile B locally, replacing your existing installation of B or simply hacking
things around so nothing breaks.

All this, manually.

Computers are tools, are meant to help us, not the other way around.

What if I tell you the above scenario can be simplified with something like
this:

  rake compile B_VERSION=1.2.3

And your library will use the version of B you specified. Done.

== You make it sound easy, where is the catch?

You got me, there is a catch. At this time (and highly likely will be always)
MiniPortile is only compatible with GCC compilers and autoconf/configure-based
projects.

It assumes the library you want to build contains a <tt>configure</tt> script,
which all the autoconf-based libraries do.

=== How to use

Now that you know the catch, and you're still reading this, let me show you a
quick example:

  require "mini_portile"
  recipe = MiniPortile.new("libiconv", "1.13.1")
  recipe.files = ["http://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/libiconv/libiconv-1.13.1.tar.gz"]
  recipe.cook
  recipe.activate

That's all. <tt>cook</tt> will download, extract, patch, configure and compile
the library into a namespaced structure. <tt>activate</tt> ensures GCC find
this library and prefers it over a system-wide installation.

=== Structure

At this time, if you haven't digged into the code yet, are wondering <em>what
is all that structure talk about?</em>.

MiniPortile follows the principle of <b>convention over configuration</b> and
established a folder structure where is going to place files and perform work.

Take the above example, and let's draw some picture:

  mylib
    |-- ports
    |   |-- archives
    |   |   `-- libiconv-1.13.1.tar.gz
    |   `-- <platform>
    |       `-- libiconv
    |           `-- 1.13.1
    |               |-- bin
    |               |-- include
    |               `-- lib
    `-- tmp
        `-- <platform>
            `-- ports

In above structure, <tt>platform</tt> refers to the architecture that represents
the operating system you're using (e.g. i686-linux, i386-mingw32, etc).

Inside this folder, MiniPortile will store the artifacts that result from the
compilation process. As you cans see, it versions out the library so you can
run multiple version combination without compromising these overlap each other.

<tt>archives</tt> is where downloaded source files are stored. It is recommended
you avoid trashing that folder so no further downloads will be required (save
bandwidth, save the world).

The <tt>tmp</tt> is where compilation is performed and can be safely discarded.

Don't worry, you don't need to know the path structure by memory, just use recipe's
<tt>path</tt> to obtain the full path to the installation directory:

  recipe.cook
  recipe.path # => /home/luis/projects/myapp/ports/i686-linux/libiconv/1.13.1

=== How can I combine this with my compilation task?

In the simplified proposal, the idea is that using Rake, your <tt>compile</tt>
task depends on MiniPortile compilation and most important, activation.

Take the following as a simplification of how you can use MiniPortile with
Rake:

  task :libiconv do
    recipe = MiniPortile.new("libiconv", "1.13.1")
    recipe.files = ["http://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/libiconv/libiconv-1.13.1.tar.gz"]
    checkpoint = ".#{recipe.name}-#{recipe.version}.installed"

    unless File.exist?(checkpoint)
      recipe.cook
      touch checkpoint
    end

    recipe.activate
  end

  task :compile => [:libiconv] do
    # ...
  end

This example will:

* Compile the library only once (using a timestamp file)
* Ensure compiled library gets activated every time
* Make compile task depend on compiled library activation

For your homework, you can make libiconv version be taken from <tt>ENV</tt>
variables.

=== Native or cross-compilation

Above examples cover the normal use case: compile support libraries natively.

MiniPortile also covers another use case, which is the cross-compilation of the
support libraries to be used as part of a binary gem compilation.

It is the perfect complementary tool for rake-compiler and it's <tt>cross</tt>
Rake task.

Depending on your usage of rake-compiler, you will need to use <tt>host</tt> to
match the installed cross-compiler toolchain.

Please refer to the examples directory for simplified and practical usage.

=== Supported scenarios

As mentioned before, MiniPortile requires a GCC compiler toolchain. This has
been tested against Ubuntu, OSX and even Windows (RubyInstaller with DevKit)

== Disclaimer

If you have any trouble, don't hesitate to contact the author. As always,
I'm not going to say <em>Use at your own risk</em> because I don't want this
library to be risky.

If you trip on something, I'll share the liability by repairing things
as quickly as I can. Your responsibility is to report the inadequacies.

== License

This library is licensed under MIT license. Please see LICENSE.txt for details.
