== Contributing

I value any contribution to mime-types you can provide: a bug report, a feature
request, or code contributions.

As mime-types is a mature codebase, there are a few guidelines:

* Code changes *will* *not* be accepted without tests. The test suite is
  written with {Minitest}[https://github.com/seattlerb/minitest].
* Match my coding style.
* Use a thoughtfully-named topic branch that contains your change. Rebase your
  commits into logical chunks as necessary.
* Use {quality commit messages}[http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html].
* Do not change the version number; when your patch is accepted and a release
  is made, the version will be updated at that point.
* Submit a GitHub pull request with your changes.
* New or changed behaviours require new or updated documentation.

=== Adding or Modifying MIME Types

The mime-types registry is loaded from a JSON file in +data+, but this file is
not considered editable and cannot be compared in a pull request. New or
modified MIME types should be edited in the appropriate YAML file under
+type-lists+. The format is as shown below for the +application/xml+ MIME type
in +type-lists/application.yml+.

  - !ruby/object:MIME::Type
    content-type: application/xml
    encoding: 8bit
    extensions:
    - xml
    - xsl
    references:
    - IANA
    - RFC3023
    xrefs: !ruby/hash:MIME::Types::Container
      rfc:
      - rfc3023
    registered: true

There are other fields that can be added, matching the fields discussed in the
documentation for MIME::Type. Pull requests for MIME types should just contain
the changes to the YAML files for the new or modified MIME types; I will
convert the YAML files to JSON prior to a new release. I would rather not have
to verify that the JSON matches the YAML changes, which is why it is not
necessary to convert for the pull request.

If you are making a change for a private fork, use <tt>rake
convert:yaml:json</tt> to convert the YAML to JSON.

=== Test Dependencies

mime-types uses Ryan Davis’s {Hoe}[https://github.com/seattlerb/hoe] to manage
the release process, and it adds a number of rake tasks. You will mostly be
interested in:

    $ rake

which runs the tests the same way that:

    $ rake test
    $ rake travis

will do.

To assist with the installation of the development dependencies for mime-types,
I have provided the simplest possible Gemfile pointing to the (generated)
+mime-types.gemspec+ file. This will permit you to do:

    $ bundle install

to get the development dependencies. If you aleady have +hoe+ installed, you
can accomplish the same thing with:

    $ rake newb

This task will install any missing dependencies, run the tests/specs, and
generate the RDoc.

=== Workflow

Here's the most direct way to get your work merged into the project:

* Fork the project.
* Clone down your fork (<tt>git clone git://github.com/<username>/mime-types.git</tt>).
* Create a topic branch to contain your change (<tt>git checkout -b my\_awesome\_feature</tt>).
* Hack away, add tests. Not necessarily in that order.
* Make sure everything still passes by running +rake+.
* If necessary, rebase your commits into logical chunks, without errors.
* Push the branch up (<tt>git push origin my\_awesome\_feature</tt>).
* Create a pull request against halostatue/mime-types and describe what your
  change does and the why you think it should be merged.

=== Contributors

* Austin Ziegler created mime-types.

Thanks to everyone else who has contributed to mime-types:

* Andre Pankratz
* Mauricio Linhares
* Richard Hirner
* Todd Carrico
* Garret Alfert
* Hans de Graaff
* Henrik Hodne
* Martin d'Allens
* cgat
* Greg Brockman
